# Mathematical-Operations-With-MARIE-Machine-Architecture-that-is-Really-Intuitive-and-Easy
The presented repository harbors assembly code written and compiled using MARIE - for the purposes of developing a mathematical calculator. This mathematical calculator has been designed to perform binary operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication and division on single-digit nonnegative numbers. This is an interactive program that first requires the user to enter the symbol of the binary operator (+, -, * or /) for the operation he/she wishes to perform. Following this, the user can choose to keep entering nonnegative single digit numbers to repeatedly perform the operation of choice on all the entered numbers. The program comes with intensive input validation to ensure appropriateness of the user input. The Decimal values may be input in the DEC/HEX format as needed. Any other character (operator symbol or any other) needs to be specifically input in the ASCII format. 

Hence, in order to quit from a specific operation, set the mode to ASCII and input any character. The subtraction operation reads the minimum value that the result may reach, and this may clearly be a negative value. The input for the said field may hence be negative but requires the mode to be set to DEC. For any operation, the input of a non-decimal character causes the program to go back to eliciting choice for a new operation to be performed. To terminate the program, the input of any character but the +, -, * or / for the operation suffices. For the division operation, the input of 0 as a divisor, causes an exit from the operation back to the menu. In the event that the divisor is greater than the dividend, the quotient hence obtained is zero. For the subtraction operation, when the result may go below the desired minimum, the operation is quit to revert back to the menu.


To run the program, download the Marie Simulator provided and load the .mex file and choose to run it. At first, set the input mode to ASCII and enter the symbol of the preferred mathematical operator (+, -, * or /) to launch the chosen operation. To quit, enter any character apart from these. Assuming you have not quit the program, follow along. Set the mode to DEC for the output. This will allow you to see the results of each successive round of operations. In case you chose the subtraction operation, change the input mode to DEC and enter the lowest acceptable limit for the result (this can be negative). Now, regardless of the operation chosen, set the input mode to DEC/HEX and enter a desired single digit nonnegative number. You shall see the output on the right side. For as long as you choose to keep entering numbers, the operation will be performed and the output displayed. At any point, if you wish to exit performing the operation, change the input mode to ASCII and enter any character. You will now have the chance to select any other operation to perform. Follow the steps mentioned above to select the operator or to quit.

If you wish to edit the source code, simply navigate as File >  Edit and choose the .mas file to edit
